hello and welcome to the ipfs weekly
call when we get to learn about the
amazing stuff that's being built on top
of IP FS today we're going to hear from
Brendan who is CEO of using star that's
being built on top and Qri is a
peer-to-peer tool which helps people
deal and handle and share data so
Brendan I'm going to let you take it
away
amazing Thank You Portia thanks
everybody for coming out to a weekly
call yeah so as force' mentioned I work
at query and we are we're trying to do
data science in a new way we think that
we like to like to call the thing we're
building the data Bazaar which is very
similar to like the data or we use the
sort of software metaphor of like we
have the cathedral style of building
software and the bazaar so building
software store like the origins woven
source cathedral style you can think of
as like many of the like wonderful
clothes teams that are mainly working in
a tight knit group and then this sort of
bizarre style where it's very much just
like take any comers if you're coming
around and you want to sort of feature
me what you can do it and so our theory
of the way the world works right now is
that there actually isn't a data of
bazaar and the reason for that is
because a number of things
there's a number of underlying
technologies that are missing that ipfs
really helps provide a super solid
foundation for and so when we mean beta
bazaar we've sort of we're looking for
some very key characteristics we want to
see something where it's a two-way
conversation where anybody can sort of
like give and take whatever data they
want where that conversation is
meaningful so it's sort of structured in
a way that everybody can sort of
understand what everyone's talking about
I think if you've ever worked with
github or any of this sort of like open
source collaboration tools you have the
feeling for what this means you you sort
of know like I'm going to create a pull
request and a pull request is a request
for someone to change the way your code
works in that code there's a process for
auditing that and then the finally you
just need this capacity to attribute all
of these changes back to the people who
made them so that as you're
collaborating you have this sort of like
audit trail this is what we get a lot
from the sort of whole world of version
control and in software unfortunately
when you go from software to data things
change a lot it's been software is not
data there they're not interchangeable
things and the biggest thing that
changes is volume right so if you think
about your average github repository
it's not it rarely exceeds a gigabyte of
space even with this entire history and
sort of like this whole thing unless
you're developing a theorem but that's a
whole nother conversation but the sort
of like when you move over to the data
space like a gig is very normal
right and versioning is a much different
conversation when you're versioning data
because often you're taking a single
file and you're making individual
changes to a single file so imagine your
massive CSV file with lots and lots of
stuff in it and you're just making small
edits to that you need to be able to
collaborate on it and so you'll be zoom
out for a second we think about ipfs and
what ipfs is a lot of the things that
ipfs does are actually like a perfect
starting point for building a dataset
version control system versus what query
is if you think about an ipfs hash that
is a bunch of files broken up into
blocks we're specifically referring to
unix FX v1 hash is a reference point for
anybody who's playing with IP LD vs. not
I feel do you land but it's it's a file
system and under the hood it all of
those files are being broken up into
blocks and so with query we've designed
something that is intended to start from
the primitive of ipfs not that IPS it's
primitive but using that as a foundation
and sort of build upwards into a system
that allows you to do convenient and
structured and reasonable and rational
versioning and so today I'd like to just
sort of give some of you on the call are
already aware with sort of what query is
and we've sort of met and chatted a
bunch but we've made some pretty major
progress since the last little while in
the last sort of number of months and so
today I'd like to just show you some of
like what's been happening and feel free
to sort of just like put your hand up
and ask questions at any point if you if
you're sort of one stopping and sort of
see what's going on but we'll sort of
give you a like high-level tour and for
today I thought it would be fun to
perhaps something that is identified
that is more relevant to the sort of
ipfs community and so how many folks
have ever wondered just like how many
nodes are online in any given point yes
yes yes ok cool yeah so today let me
just sort of start with I'm gonna share
my screen I'm just gonna share my whole
desktop and hopefully my desktop is not
too muddy all right that's straight to
code land that wasn't smart cool so here
is an answer to your question if we sort
of like zoom in on when was this
Monday June 10th so if we if we count
the unique number of peers by our there
were three thousand four hundred forty
six and then I have to move this window
I'm sorry there were if we look at it
over the over the last day there were
six thousand unique
seen over the last day and so what
you're looking at is a visualization of
a query data set and so this is sort of
the overview of it is that and we think
about this very similar like a github
repo but our notion of a addition is far
more granular than a repo you would have
many data sets many more than you would
have repos but the thing that's really
important about query is it's a very
structured conversation so I'm just
showing you a visualization oh cool
we did we did great oh yeah I have to
run this in the background Shh Democrats
aren't being nice to me today but
actually one of this is a demonstration
of connecting to the distributed web and
at the same time it also serves up for
me a local my dataset but if we look at
this sort of the thing that's most
important about query is like to try and
normalize this conversation around data
and the way we've done this is we've
developed a there's a document model
where everything is structured the exact
same way when we're talking about data
sets the actual contents of a dataset so
like if we think about like the CSV file
and it data set we call that the body
and we're sort of working very similar
to the way that HTML documents work all
of our metadata is sorted something
called meta and then meta and structure
and transform sort of collectively are
referred to as the head but this is the
actual data so if at any given point you
can literally just pull this hash off of
my PFS and we'll let this load in the
background while we sort of resolve that
I could resolve that locally but anyways
the data itself is actually right there
and always accessible to you so at any
given point you can go to this hash
slash body dot CSV and you will see this
data actually in this case I think it's
a JSON data set yeah this is in JSON so
it would be body got JSON but we sort of
get what we need to sort of start this
data bizarre conversation I like I have
created this data set and it has in a
recurring history of changes over time
and each one of these is built exactly
the way they get is built where each
snapshot each data set is a snapshot
that refer references it's prior one so
this is the initial one and then sort of
moving up forward as we make all of
these changes and every single change is
tracked and every single change is
attributed and all of this is every
single time we're sort of writing this
down as an ipfs hash and moving that
around as we need it but we have a chat
one second
sir sports let's do something ah is
there live support for live data sets as
of right now we sort of think of that as
a separate set of concerns eventually
we'll get into the sort of pub sub EE
sort of live distribution of stuff but
there's a real sort of one of our big
primitives is we are very snapshot based
right now so the short answer is no
there's no support for anything sort of
live wise I think that's a great point
to sort of start this conversation we
have to sort of deal with the problem of
keeping this data current right and so
we kind of have two options in this very
concrete use case like what this data
set is doing under the hood to sort of
get into the details of it is this each
data set comes with something called a
transform script and so we've embedded a
programming syntax into query called the
star log that looks a lot like Python
and so I can actually pull this up in an
editor versus a little easier to see and
so you can actually write Python code
that explains to a dataset how to update
itself which is a very useful tool
because we've now bound that
transformation script to the data set
itself and it moves around with the data
set so if you add this to your query
node and this moves from one peer to
another you have the majority the
details you need to recreate that data
set and you get your own Update button
to rerun this but then in this special
case we have this sort of like sticky
problem of like star lock doesn't know
anything about it so we have to like
deal with some of these sandboxing
issues and most importantly there's the
way that we're actually grabbing these
metrics is we are running a kubernetes
box in the cloud that is scraping the
ipfs DHT and so there's a sort of an
intrinsic problem here where everybody
could do that but that would be if we
had like a thousand people sort of clone
that dataset and and run these DHT
scrapers it's not really gonna help our
DHT stay healthy and if it is it's just
like a lot of access requests overall I
mean to serve and it would probably be
smarter if we set this up and ran it and
had it sort of scheduled to
automatically update and so that's sort
of what we've built at query most
recently is where we're now we're
calling it a fog service because we
think it's I don't know it feels like a
fog service and so what this means is if
I do query update list I hopefully you
can see this a little larger and I'm
gonna wait for I could gear to figure
out okay well you query update list this
is a list
of datasets that are scheduled to
automatically update so I can see that
the third item here says that in 23
hours I'm going to rerun this shell
scripts and if we look at these shell
scripts where is that shell scripts
let's find it one second here it's no
account so this is the shell scripts
under the hood and so what this is doing
is this is running on my computer and
this is something that query is
scheduled through demonised process
registered with my operating system to
reach into my machine connect to
kubernetes over a set of secure keys
that I control and it don't have to
distribute with the data set we run a
proxy connection to a Prometheus
instance which is going to provide us
with data we're going to wait for that
connections that sort of occur and then
we're gonna actually use we're gonna run
the transform script that depends on
that server running at night and look at
logo host 99 hits if there's a
Prometheus instance that I can access
it's running this data and that's going
to update the data set itself and that
will then publish because I've included
this published flag this will then
automatically push that data set up to
queries cloud backup and so we run
something called a registry which keeps
all of your ipfs hashes and datasets
live on the distributed web and so every
24 hours this is gonna run and so every
24 hours we'll get new data being pushed
and so all you have to do if you want to
get this data is visit is follow this
data set which is b5 ipfs node count and
you just hit update and you're gonna get
new versions of data and the new stuff
that you need to do your analysis and so
this is what we mean by sort of a data
Bazaar you can take this data and do
whatever you want with it do whatever
you think is useful or relevant with it
but it's structured in a way such that
you have an audit trail and so you can
actually see how this is working and if
I've done my job correctly I've
annotated everything I'm included
metadata that lets you figure out what's
going on and how this is working I've
sort of included some comments and the
transform script about what sort of you
know brief oh we're running to sort of
achieve these stats and how this is
working and you can sort of decide for
yourself whether this is sort of worth
investigating I'm gonna turn to the chat
thank social ok amazing yes they Jared
bugs a bad service but yeah we we could
totally talk about fog and mist and
other particles of water I'm into all of
those but the point being like we also
include these visualizations just to
make everything sort of a quick and easy
and this will just update itself over
time the last thing I should note is
that maybe I can access this locally we
also make the Gateway available also I
should do that on 8080 yeah I always get
that wrong
that second slash is this really a
nightmare for me five thousand one part
of me so if we actually look at that
this is the actual contents of the data
set itself and so you can actually see
every single one of these snapshots is a
individual thingy with references to
there were ashes this is how we do
comparison work yeah this is what's
going on here I should probably stop for
questions but last but not least we do
actually make we've done a bunch of work
to like make sure that we're sort of
fully interoperable with the existing
sort of my PFS ecosystem so when you're
running query connects which is our
version of ipfs daemon you can actually
get to the web UI and this is kind of
fun that you can actually see the
version of the thing registered properly
and it's like fully there are no need of
all we can explore our files and stuff
and so this is all thanks to the
wonderful work happening particularly
instead of going PFS to sort of make
this really easy for us to sort of bolt
in so yeah maybe I'll stop there for
questions and see what's going on or
read this chat um if you like you can
take the presentation to the end and
we'll have questions afterwards ok cool
yeah and then I guess in terms of
presentation details it's easier to talk
through some of this stuff so we've yeah
over over this sort of like courses of
getting this up in rolling we've been
this sort of next couple of months are
going to be an exciting time in query
we've finally passed a very important
milestone for us which is the sort of
back-end features of building and
managing a version control system are
far more fleshed out than they've ever
been
we have a lot of work to do on
documentation we have a lot of work to
do on tutorial writing
and then we have a very very very big
overhaul to our user experience front
inside coming but we're very happy was
where the back ends at we now that we
have this capacity to auto update and
auto publish we think that it forms a
really exciting sort of system where
people can be designing these data sets
in their own and though they are their
own source of authority on what that
data is and are now able to publish that
sort of automatically and ideally this
is sort of helping us get around this
like the two nasty problems in data
which is auditability and keeping from
keeping things fresh and so we think of
this as like one giant sort of like data
Bazaar of stuff that you can get access
to yeah is there a public registry of
all the datasets that people to maintain
their absolutely is a public registry of
all days that's people publish it
maintain its registry query dot IO thank
you for the wonderful questions I mean
and so it is worth digging in a little
bit for this crowd into what of the
registry is for us a registry is we
maintain two things there which is just
we enforce unique appear names there so
you could see Mike your name is B five
and C that is actually negotiated with
the registry which is a centralized
system in relation to a decentralized
system it also handles search for us if
you run query search that's that's going
to the registry we're working on
distributed search but that's obviously
like a a very experimental part of the
neck of the woods
and finally what it does is the registry
we we're if you sort of think about this
as a parallel to love what github just
recently launched in terms of their repo
availability our registry is just a
backing layer for the distributed system
so all we're dealing with when the query
registry is we're just keeping hashes
available so that when you close your
laptop that hash that you published is
automatically there and so it looks a
lot more like a get get out system where
github is sort of just hosting your git
repository this is very similar to look
where he's doing it's just hosting the
copy of your hashes query registry has
no capacity to publish anything on your
behalf all commits are signed with a
special key pair that is provisioned
according to every users query note it's
different from your IP FS PR ID mainly
so that you can have many of your best
machines and use the same profile but
these are concept of forking yes forking
is just like the de-facto way that
things work if you run query ad on
somebody else's data set and then you
edit that data set it Forks and so now
it's now
just your own and that automatically is
sort of set up for you we haven't
figured out the merge we know
technically how we're gonna do like pull
requests but we haven't actually written
any of that code yet oh the biggest
thing in queer that's different from a
git repository is the data model is set
inside of instead of a query data set so
you can merge any two data sets you can
compare any two data sets at any given
point because there's no confusion about
what file is where we know exactly what
each file is supposed to do there's that
make sense and I guess in that case if I
wanted to continue like applying this in
transformation again I would just like
fit the same scripts eyes dude the one
you have to like touch today and I was
yeah what do you like picking the on the
source and I kept playing it yeah I mean
I can just share really quickly we have
a shortcut for that we call it recall so
I can do queries save recall TF and that
will just pull the transformation out of
my history from one time back now if I
wanted to go back to transformations
that can recall tilde to sue me I PFS
know camps this would error because
there isn't a transformation to
history's back if you're thinking it's
kind of a funny way to think about
you're thinking across the possible
versions of it is that so I do this this
will no I can't do GF one obviously that
doesn't work alright because my
Prometheus server isn't turned on but
recall works recall is the thing that
under the hood if we do query update run
if a snowed count that will do the exact
same thing it's just that alias for
recall the last transform scripts
because it's so common to do
yeah on that note do you need custom
code how query interacts dude is that is
it pretty Auto magical yeah so the there
are two really auto magical parts inside
of the transformations we have something
called download and something called
transform which are two special
functions that you define inside of
query and the the signature of
downloaded transform is d s and then a
context and so d s just gives you the
last version of the data set and so you
can see how cool you know we had you
know this was the body and I can examine
that and this works really well for
append-only locked so you could say hey
this my dataset had these ten entries go
to the last entry start that they'd
stamps from there and then the so those
two functions if you define them where
he calls them for you and so those are
automatically called in the background
but if you define none of them that
nothing will happen because your
transform isn't doing anything special
if that makes sense
then it's the question and then yes so
moving on to Johnny crutches how do you
handle semantic and drawing of the data
between json-ld this is a great question
Johnny that I love digging in on so
Jason our json-ld support is planned we
currently support D cat as a raw
specification and RDF as export formats
so queries query has semantic
understanding of your data with a couple
of caveats because we have to get a
little specific about what the word
semantics means if you have a column
that's level labeled population query
doesn't know that that's a count of
people write that for that you would
mean some sort of specification like RDF
for something like json-ld where you're
actually talking specifically about the
same thing I'm very excited that ipfs
camped to sort of get into a big
conversation with the IPL do you team
about graphing and linking schemas in a
way that could be represented as json-ld
but I think that's an area of future
research for us but at a base layer what
query can do for you out of the box is
it understands what you're talking about
when you say data set so if you say
combine these two datasets it can smash
all of those rows together for you or it
can smash all the metadata together for
you or you can grab all of the titles
titles of all of your data sets
that's all doable but what we want to
get to is for query to understand that
when I say population I'm talking about
account of people and that's a big long
conversation where romantic mapping
things that humans
about wanted things the machines know
which is a big messy problem and then
finally are you working with governments
in their Open Data initiatives yes we
work with governments allies
particularly New York we have a lot of
great very productive conversations here
with the city of New York
it has been a great partner we're also
working a bunch at the sort of
international level on the UN
sustainable development goals which is
also another source of a majorly stale
data that we work on a bunch and also
through my work at the environmental
data and governance initiative we work a
lot on archiving climate data which is
also another sort of like portion sector
they tends to get stale and tends to be
difficult to sort of like keep keep your
sort of finger on the pulse of so we do
I think the people who gravities work
we're the most early have been million
the tech sector we've had a lot of
interest from that set faint so I like
to add that warms my heart that you're
working with a New York City open data
cuz I know for years they've had a
problem with like data that's old and
data that's outdated so honestly kudos
so the one for work that you're doing
no thank you yeah we're they're actually
really excited about it because there's
a real desire to make this a two-way
conversation right if we think about
data portals they're sort of this
one-way dissemination of data that is
often stale and it's very difficult for
an individual citizen to come in and say
I would like to I want to help I want to
sort of improve your data dictionary or
I want to make some changes to the data
that I know is incorrect and there's no
method to have that dialog right now and
so a number of places that were very
excited is someone can make an auditable
upgrade right I can take that data prove
that exactly what I changed is this
stuff and only this stuff we didn't
really get into query sniffing tools
today but we have a giant differ that
allows you to do structured data and I
can sort of show you hey this is what I
want to change and that that sets up a
conversation where it did a maintainer
inside of a city who is overly burdened
with their work already in the in the
sort of civic sector is able to actually
accept that enhancement
okay that's a lot I think we covered
it's kinda went all over the place there
are there any any more questions
there are a couple I think you didn't
get entity and the other one here I
think course right yeah and can I use Qi
as an API for custom data visualizations
on IP FSOC website basically what is the
course oh yes yes totally when I make
like a fancy nodes dashboard yes you can
totally make a fancy notes password so
everything you're seeing on the front
end is leveraging a JSON API which is
available when you ring for a connect so
that's locally available we don't make a
like hosted version of that available
because we really want you to use the
distribute tools but so that's totally
possible and where I shouldn't be
talking about this yet but we're we're
inches from graph QL sort of like
looking like it's a possibility
I can't it's gonna take us like six
months but we think that you will be
able to turn the entire query Network
into a graph QL thing which would be fun
getting to identity and management of
identity and private data sets which I
think are sort of hand in hand those are
the sort of like really what constitutes
our goals for the next eight months to a
year we're going to do a very serious
look at access control including a lot
of cutting-edge work around differential
privacy which will allow certain
individuals to say I would like an
anonymized version that's data set which
to us is a very important sort of thing
to be talking about when we're thinking
about access control in relation to data
and we'd like all of that to happen on
cryptographic primitives that are sort
of based in decentralized identifiers
and so we this is sort of taking the D
ID spec layering on an access control
system that is ideally sort of like more
generic than just dealing with query
problems but leaves us space for doing
stuff like I would like an anonymized
version in this data set it's an area of
major-league
active research what we have today is
you provision just a basic cryptographic
key pair oh that almost exactly
resembles your pure ID so you have a
couple public/private key pair and
that's how we manage identity on query
for now
that make sense
yeah when you read the process of
setting up a Kirino does he just run
crazy setup and that provisions of to
keep errors that makes make sure you
have an active mastery though and to
make sure you have and then it makes you
a query keep error and when you choose a
peer name we just register the public
key with the registry and say well can
you prove this and then there's a simple
proving ceremony and then you can claim
an identifier and then we make sure you
can't claim too many in an hour that's
awesome thank you so much for listening
everyone does anyone have any other
questions no questions to this this is a
fun crowd because we sort of meld no
ipfs so we can sort of talk very very
technically but then query is very much
aimed at folks you like don't know ipfs
and like you spend a lot of time just
working with data and so it sort of can
shift very quickly between two
conversations
well Brendan thank you so much for
taking the time out to explain a work
that queries doing all right thank you
very much for listening and you'll be at
ipfs camp correct I will be at I feel s
camera very excited to share a lot of
how a lot of what I've just shown you
sort of the guts under the hood have are
some things that we're really hoping to
sort of pork back into the ipfs
community and yeah we're really looking
for them many chats that I feel that's
gay just generally accept that's awesome
we can't wait to learn more and thank
you once again thank you very much for
taking a time out to explain query and a
wonderful work that you're doing and for
everyone else for the IPO first weekly
meeting we are not going to have a
weekly meeting next week in a week after
because of ipfs camp but we will
continue again I believe the beginning
of July so thank you very much I will
put out an issue about this and I will
see everyone in the future of the next
July thank you take care goodbye this
upcoming July